Today, while sitting in the office during office hours, it
came to my mind that if today I
purchase a health insurance policy
for myself and my family, then which
features would I consider?  Will I just
check the fundamentals of the health insurance company or will I also check other things
like what are the features?
How are its network hospitals?  What is its claim process
like?  So thinking this,
only two plans came to my mind.  One was
Elevate plan of ICIC LBA and the other was
Riso 2.0 plan of Niva BPA.  Why did this plan come to my mind
?  Because these two plans are
revolutionary health
insurance plans today.  At the time when these
plans were launched, there were
no comparable plans available.
So I thought why not
make a comparison which will clear your doubts
and
you will get a solution to one of your biggest problems that you should know as to
which health insurance policy to purchase.
So you watch this video till the end.
Share it with your friends and relatives also.
If you have come to Insurance Seva for the first time
today, then subscribe to Insurance Seva
and if you click on the bell icon button,
you will keep getting notifications of my videos.
[Music]
So let me start today's video.
What are the similarities between Nivapa's Reo 2.0 and ICICI LBAD's Elevate Plan?
What differences will there be?  Why do
we call these plans revolutionary?
How many network hospitals does this insurance company have?
How do they settle claims?  So first of all the
fundamentals of the insurance company which are most important
for any insurance plan.
Be it health insurance, term
insurance or motor insurance.
So here the claim settlement ratio will
come first.  So ICC LBRD has a claim settlement of 97%
and Neeva BPA has a
claim settlement ratio of 92%.  The incurred claim
ratio will be 79% for ICC LBAD and 59% for Niva
BPA Health Insurance Company.
Solvency Ratio 2.68 ICICI LBD and Neeva
BPA 2.55
here both are almost similar.
Talking about network hospitals,
15,000 are with ICC LBD and 11,000 are
with Neeva BPUPA.  And if I talk about the reimbursement claim
process, then the
reimbursement claim process of both the companies
is fully online.  Talking about ICC Lombard,
they have an app called IL Care.  If you go there and
submit all your documents,
your claim will be settled.  Niva
Bupa has a link.  You will have to go online and
submit all the documents, then your
claim will be settled.  Now we will talk
in the next slide about
what are the USPs in these plans?  Why do
we call these plans revolutionary?
What did they launch at that time which was not available in other health
insurance plans?  So let's take
ICLB's Elevate plan.  So the first thing
he started was the power
booster.  They added the power booster
and this power booster is the beauty of this plan.
This plan is incomplete without Power Booster.
Power Booster is an add-
on feature that says I will increase your sum assured every year, whether there is a
claim or
not.  You can purchase a policy of ₹1 lakh.
Every year ₹1 lakh will
accumulate in it.  This means that in 10 years
this policy will reach ₹1 crore, in 20 years it will reach
₹1 crore and in 30 years it will reach ₹1 crore.  This
means that this policy will
beat your inflation.  As medical
inflation increases, your time will also increase.
And the biggest plus point is
that it will increase even if there is a claim
and it will increase even if there is no claim.   The
second feature is Infinite Care.  Infinite
Care is also an add-on feature.  Additional
premium has to be paid.  You can
take unlimited claims once in your lifetime.  Meaning,
you took a policy of ₹1 lakh or a policy of ₹20 lakh.  There
comes a moment in life
when there is a huge claim, that claim can be of any
size, it can be of Rs 10 crore, 50 crore,
it can also be of Rs lakh,
you have to intimate the company that
I want to take unlimited infinite care for this claim, then
that claim will be paid to you unlimitedly,
these two features are very unique features
which were not present in any health and health insurance
plan at the time when this
plan was launched.  Unlimited
restoration is available under this plan for the same person and same illness.
And next is Jump
Start.  Jump start hypertension,
diabetes, obesity, asthma and
hyperlipidemia.
If you have this disease then add Jump Start.
Pay a little additional premium.
You will get cover for these diseases from 31 days.
These are the USPs of
ICC Laborde Elevate Plan.  Speaking of iv bp r 2.0,
Lock the Clock.  Lock the clock Lock
the clock.  Will lock your edge with entry.
This and
your premium will not increase until you make a claim.
Your premium will not increase with age band.  There are two
ways in which premiums increase
under a health insurance plan.  One is
due to inflation, due to medical inflation and the
other is as your age band changes.
If you do not make a claim in this plan, then
your age band premium will
never increase.  But the
premium will increase with inflation.  Whenever
premiums are revised according to inflation.
Second is the booster in it.  The booster
there was a power booster.  Here is Booster
Plus.  They have four variants in Booster Plus.
Gold, Bronze, Platinum
Plus and Titanium Plus.  And
your Booster Plus will accumulate according to these variants.
Here your remaining sum assured will be
carried forward to the next year and will continue to be carried forward till it becomes 10x.  If you
take Titanium Plus policy then you have a chance of ₹1 lakh.   If you do
not claim Rs. 1 lakh next year, then if you do
not claim Rs. 30 lakh next year and in this way
your problem will keep increasing till it becomes 10x.  This
means that you can get a policy of up to ₹1 crore 10 lakh
if ​​you
take Titanium Plus.  Next is Reshore
Forever.  This is a unique feature of them.
Restoration Unlimited Same Person Same Illness
is available in almost all policies.  But theirs is a
little different.  The difference is like this, if
you take a policy of ₹1 lakh today and you make a
claim, then the reassure will be triggered in it
for the next claim.  Now whenever you make a
claim, the reshoring will already be triggered.
Next year also means for life long.
Now, if you need to make a claim in any other year,
you can take base sum assured
and restoration together.
Suppose in the first year your reassured gets
triggered.  Next year, you
can make your first claim of ₹20 lakh in a policy of ₹1 lakh.
This is a unique feature and
is absolutely unmissable.  Now let us talk about the
basic features of the implant.  So
when we talk about basic features, the first thing that will
come to mind is TimeShared.  So, ICICI LB also has the
option of unlimited sum assured starting from ₹5 lakh.
Here you will find 5 lakh,
7.5 lakh, 10 lakh, 15 lakh, 20 lakh, 25 lakh, 50 lakh
, 1 crore, 3 crore and unlimited sum
assured. If you opt for unlimited sum assured,
you will
not need any power booster.  There
is no need for infinite care.
Whatever expenses you incur while going to the hospital, the
insurance company will bear them all.
This is called Unlimited Time Show.  Whereas,
Niva Bupa has options available starting from Rs 5 lakh and going up
to a maximum of Rs 1 crore.
Talking about the entry age, the
minimum is 18 years and there is no limit on the entry age in both the plans.
People of any age can opt for both these plans.  The
policy can be taken for 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years.
Elevated plan of ICC perpendicular.  But the
rear shows two points of Niva Bupa to opt for one year, two years and
three years policy.
Now let us talk about the
entry age and maximum exit age of dependent children
?  So any child between the age of 18 to 30 years will be
considered as a
dependent child.  After turning 31,
it will be split between both the plans.
So here both are beans.  Talking about the room rent of the family
size two adult three kid ICC LB Elevate
plan and two adult four kid Neevapar Reshot
2.0 plan,
ICC LB will have an inbuilt
capping of single private AC room in the Elevate plan.
You can downgrade it or
upgrade it.
He has customized it.  If you pay additional premium, it will be
upgraded.  And if you want to get a discount on the premium, then
you can go for a twin sharing room by downgrading it.
But there is no capping inbuilt in Neevapa.
Any room can be opted.
Whatever tariff they have
tied up with the hospital.  There is
no capping in both ICU and ICCU pay.  Copayment
is not mandatory in either of the two policies.
Now we will talk about pre and post
hospitalization because there are a
lot of expenses before leaving the hospital and there are a
lot of expenses even after coming back from the hospital.  So
here ICC LBA gives you 90 days pre-
hospitalization expenses
and you can take 180 days post-hospitalization
expenses.  In
contrast, NIVAPA will cover the expenses of 60 days pre-
hospitalization
and you can take the expenses of 180 days post-hospitalization.
Day care treatment,
modern treatment, no capping,
no sublimits of any kind.  All
day care treatments, modern treatments and
robotic surgeries will be covered.
Earlier, there was a cap of ₹1 lakh on robotic surgeries under NEVAPA 2.0, which has now been removed.
Now there will be no capping, no
sub limits.  E-Consultation: If
I talk about ICC LBAD's Elevate plan,
then it is unlimited here after taking add-on cover
but in Neeva Persia 2.0 it is
inbuilt and is unlimited.
You can get unlimited e-consultation through their app.
I have come to my next slide.
Restoration is in both plans.  Same
person is for same illness.  There will be unlimited
times.  We will talk about the ambulance.
Here we are talking about road ambulance, so there is
no capping sublime.  Up to some
Assured Road ambulances are covered.   The
ICIC Labord Elevate plan comes with air
ambulance cover but you will have to take an add-on cover.  There
is no inbuilt cover.  Whereas
if we talk about Neev Upar Ratio 2.0, then there will be
air ambulance inbuilt cover there.
ICC LBA will have an
inbuilt no claim bonus of 20% yearly in the name of no claim bonus.   The
maximum will go up to 100% even if there is a claim
or even if there is no claim and as
I told you, there is Booster Plus in Niva Reshore 2.0,
here it will accumulate as per Bronze Gold
Platinum Plus and Titanium Plus,
Sum Assured Remaining
Sum Assured Home Care Domiciliary Treatment
up to Sum Assured is covered, waiting
period of PED is inbuilt of 36 months, next
slide tells that for Annual Health Checkup,
you will have to take add
on cover of Annual Health Checkup under ICC Labard, which you can avail by
going through their app, these will be the prescribed
tests which you can avail.
Whereas Neevapar EO 2.0 has an inbuilt cover,
you will have to enable its cashless facility through the app.
Alternative
treatment which we also call Ayush treatment.
Cover is available in both policies without
any sub-limit.  Maternity cover, which is
a life event, comes in everyone's life at some point or the other.
You can take this as an add-on in ICC LB
but it will not be covered in Nivapa Ratio 2.0.  The
second plan of Nivaba
is Aspire, where you can get this facility.
You have to take consumable cover as an add-on in both the plans.
You can get cover for consumables by taking add-on.  Nivapa has
Safeguard Plus.  Where you
get three things.
Your time assured will increase according to inflation and
if you take a claim of up to ₹1 lakh then there will be
no impact on the booster.
And all four lists of consumable items will be covered.
There is a wellness program
included in both plans.  Up to 30% discount will be
available.  If you walk a few steps a day
, you keep yourself healthy and active.
Deductible options will
not be available within the ICC LBD Elevate plan.  But there
are deductible options in Neevapro 2.0 which you can opt for to reduce your premium.
You can reduce your premium by taking deductibles of Rs 2000, 300, 500 and ₹1 lakh.  There
is a very cool feature inside the Elevate plan.  You can avail up to 15%
discount on the basis of CIVIC score.
If your Civil is 800 Plus, then you can
get instant discount up to 15%
which will continue for life i.e. as long as you
run the policy.  Even if
your score is less than 800, you will get some percentage
discount on your civil score, which is
not available in the show two points facility on Ni Babu.  Now the time has come to complete this video
which I
will complete with premium because without
checking the premium we cannot judge that now
this comparison is complete.  So let us first talk about
ICC Lombard's Elevate
Plan.  This time I have taken a 46 year old age.
Took the Two Adult Two kit.   The
address is Delhi NCR.  There is a time limit of ₹1 lakh in
which I have added claim protector
i.e. consumable rider.
Power booster has been added.  Where the share will keep
increasing for a long time.
I have also added Infinite Care.
Where
unlimited claims can be taken once in a lifetime.  And the
premium will be 4346 only.
Against this, if I talk about Niva Bupa
's Reso 2.0, where sum assured of ₹1 lakh,
same family size, same age
group, same location and
after adding Safeguard Plus to it, the premium will be
₹4310.   The
premium is exactly the same.  There is a difference of ₹200.
But talking about features,
here ICC LBD goes above the base ratio 2.0.
Provides more coverage and more features for the same premium.  But
which features suit you?
Which features are useful to you?  You have to
consider what matters to you.  You decide
which health insurance plan suits you according to your needs.
Whatever questions or queries you have related to these two plans,
you
can ask me in my comment box.  I will meet
you in my next video.  Till then
Jai Hind, Jai Bharat.